now that we have a basic understanding
of how the map process works let's see
how it relates to the ten essential
services of Public Health the next
section will give you a brief overview
of the ten essential services of Public
Health
this wheel shows the ten essential
services to better understand what
public health does the public health
profession in the mid 1990s expanded on
the three core functions by describing
what are now called the ten essential
public health services all of these
services are linked to the three core
functions this expansion helped to
better define public health the
essential services that constitute
assessment are monitor health status
diagnose and investigate the essential
services that constitute policy
development are inform educate and
empower mobilize community partnerships
develop policies the essential services
that constitute assurance are enforce
laws linked to and provide care a sure
competent workforce evaluate finally
research is an essential service that
looks for new and innovative solutions
to health problems and can involve all
of the other essential services let's
look at all the activities that fall
under each of the ten essential services
we will start with the essential
services that fall under the core
function of assessment
public health monitors health status to
identify and solve community health
problems examples of how DHEC and others
in the public health system monitor
health status include the following
activities diagnosed communities health
status identify threats to health and
assess need collect analyze and publish
information about access utilization
costs and outcomes of personal health
services collect and analyze vital
statistics and health status of higher
risk groups birth and death certificates
immunization registries integrate
information systems with private
providers and health benefit plans
public health diagnosis and investigate
health problems and health hazards in
the community examples of how DHEC and
others in the public health system
diagnose and investigate health problems
include the following activities
identify emerging health threats to
discover for example the source of a
foodborne illness outbreak use modern
laboratory technology to conduct rapid
screening and high-volume testing use
active surveillance programs to address
infectious diseases epidemiologically
maintain technical capacities to
undertake epidemiologic investigations
of disease outbreaks and to examine
patterns of chronic disease and injury
public health and forms educates and
empowers people about health issues
examples of how DHEC and others in the
public health system inform educate and
empower the citizens include the
following activities market community
health issues communicate to targeted
media provide access to health
information resources at community
levels collaborate with personal health
care providers to reinforce health
promotion messages and programs
participate in joint health education
programs collaborate with schools
churches and worksite Public Health
mobilizes community partnerships to
identify and solve health problems
examples of how DHEC and others in the
public health system mobilize community
partnerships include the following
activities convene and facilitate
community groups in associations
including those not typically considered
to be health-related to define
preventive screening rehabilitative and
support programs build community health
coalition's drawing upon the full range
of human and financial resources
available